Vishuddhi, as I've said many times, essentially means a filter.
Vishuddhi is one dimension…that we normally skip,
because, if you become active in Vishuddhi, one dimension of this is,
that you become occult competent.
Occult essentially means, if your
energies are centered in Vishuddhi, or reasonably some mastery over your Vishuddhi,
you start functioning in a…different level of competence
that people around you think you are super human.
But all that's happened is, you have accessed other ways to function.
So, in many ways, Adiyogi is a representative of that,
so representative of that, that there are so many names,
which are around his Vishuddhi.
He's called Vishakanta, he's called Neelakanta,
like this, there are many names representing him as an embodiment of Vishuddhi,
not because that's the only quality he had,
people recognize only those things, because something
beyond their understanding happened.
See. if you say Jesus, we don't know what all he did,
they didn't record what he said, what he did,
but if you say Jesus, first thing will…people will say is, "He walked upon water."
Like that, Shiva is…Adiyogi, or Shiva is famous,
for things that he did, which other people thought are impossible,
or beyond normal capability.
So, people started recognizing him for his Vishuddhi capability,
his other capabilities were too subtle for them to notice,
something beyond their understanding,
what they thought was normal, should happen.
So, something weird should happen.
Vishuddhi…
If you put people on the Vishuddhi sadhana, you will develop a lot of weirdoes.
Weirdo means just this
you every day scraped your face, somebody did not.
in your understanding, he's a weirdo...Let's say one society developed
this habit or this tradition, or a sacred tradition that
if nose is cut off when the child is born,
you…the child will inhale, and as an adult also you will inhale
twenty-two percent extra oxygen.
Much healthier, much better,
you won't need a tissue.
eco-friendly it is. Many things, hmm?
So, if this happened - suddenly if one person came with a… intact nose,
suddenly he will look like a weirdo. Yes or no?…
If one's Vishuddhi becomes active,
these kind of energy capabilities will come through which one can create many things.
It's very important, if one wants to transmit
and transform the situations around them,
having a certain capacity of the Vishuddhi is very very important.
But, if one is focused on Vishuddhi,
it's a little hard for them to fit into the social structure.
You have definitely heard of stories of Adiyogi,
sometimes he is very resplendent, magnificent,
representation of a male person,
some other times he is all weird, and crazy, and like that
these descriptions are talking about the different states in which they saw him.
When they saw him in Vishuddhi, he was in the cremation ground, weird
the weirdest of the weird. He had the Ganas around him, and every
kind of being, because this is one thing that'll happen,
the moment Vishuddhi is active, disembodied beings will naturally move towards you.
When we were consecrating Dhyanalinga,
I was preparing people for different chakras, but Vishuddhi is
one thing I could not train anybody for,
because we didn't have anybody weird enough.
We had weird people, but not weird enough
for a quick transformation the time… having the time
constraints, the kind of time constraints we had at that time.
So I decided to use a certain disembodied being,
a Yogi who has has attained to a certain level,
strong in the Vishuddhi, so we decided to use him.
The moment we started doing this,
one thing is, one particular cobra,…
we're about four-hundred people gathered in the night,
and he just… we don't know how he crawled through this
crowd, nobody noticed him,
and he comes there,
and comes into one small pit that I have made to do
something, he comes and sits in that pit.
Then I see this guy is trying to have a free ride with me.
then I pick him up and put him in a bag, and tell them, "Go, leave him in the forest."
So they put him outside and come, another few hours, again
he's back there in the same pit.
He wants to be there, because he sees it's his chance,
you see? Around his neck also,
all this symbolism is a science
of trying to give you a certain language
it's a certain map of how to go, how things happen.
When I used to meditate for long hours,
I either sat in…sometimes in Chamundi Hill, otherwise there's a small forest
called Aloka in Mysore, when I sat there,
I don't know why I always chose afternoons, I never sat in the morning,
sometimes late nights, but, mostly in the afternoons, for some reason.
If I sat in the afternoons and meditated for a few hours and opened my eyes,
there would be twelve-fifteen cobras in front of me, all sitting
there and waiting for a free ride.
The moment Vishuddhi becomes active,
they will be there.
That is the significance that it's around his neck, because Vishuddhi is active,
the symbolism or the imagery is trying to say,
"His Vishuddhi is so active, the cobra won't leave his neck, it's right there."
Disembodied beings will naturally come - once again,
Vishuddhi is something that we normally skip with most people,
because one who is looking for realization,
he need not go through all these works.
But one who wants to explore the technologies of life,
one who wants to transmit, one who wants to become capable enough
to be able to hold, and
be some kind of a repository for the future,
that one has to go through all this. One who wants to just realize,
it's not necessary
none of these things are necessary, it's very simple,
just a knock on your head, it should happen.
When one becomes focused on Vishuddhi,
they will develop a…blue colored aura, an electric blue aura.
This is why all the very active,
capable beings of the past,
have always been blue bodied in India.
So all of them are blue bodied, not because their skin was blue.
Those who had the necessary awareness, when they looked that them,
they saw
they had a blue aura.
In India, there are  so much literature about the blue bodied ones,
because blue body meant
an activity, or a dynamism
with sweetness of emotion, and discernment of the mind.
Because if too much sweetness of emotion happens,
you don't want to involve in the world, you're just fine
the way you are,
you're just.
If discernment of mind, intellect comes
to such a point that you see everything distinctly clear,
then you don't want to involve, because
there is nothing to involve, what is there to involve?
What is there to involve with livers and kidneys
and intestines, and shit?
What is there to involve in all this? So you become aloof.
You have nothing to do with anybody.
Only if you are active…
See, these are two things, this is anahata, this is agna,
between is this. Only if your vishuddhi is active,
you're blue bodied, then you can be in sweetness of emotion,
you have the discernment of mind,
you can play the world whichever way you want,
and still not be touched by it,
then you are in a different kind of love affair,
not with anything, not with anybody.
The word love doesn't anymore indicate
somebody or something to you.
It just means that
your emotion is totally yours,
you can make it whichever way you want..